For exercise number 7, we wanna do
something a little bit different.
Right now,
the box is draggable by absolutely anyone.
What we want to do is we wanna use
transient transitions to determine if
there's a user.
And if there is not a user,
then we don't want the box to be draggable
because we want to make sure
that the user is authorized.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to add a transient transition over here.
And this transient transition is going
to be in this checkingAuth state.
And the purpose of this is to determine
whether there's a user or not.
If there is a user,
then we go immediately to the idle state
where the user is allowed to drag.
And if there isn't a user,
then we go to some unauthorized state.
Now, in the unauthorized states, you
shouldn't be able to drag or do anything.
So we're going to be testing that out.
So let's first add our
transient transition.
It's going to be on, and
the event is just an empty string.
And that's to signify that it is
a transient transition that is
immediately taken once
we enter this state.
And so we're going to be adding
some transitions here, but
let's go ahead and add our unauthorized
state first, unauthorized.
And let's test this out real quick.
So if we go and
start in the unauthorized state,
we should see that now we have
this nice sign in button and
you're not able to drag it at all.
So we'll get the same effect
if we do an immediate or
transient transition to
the unauthorized state.
So let's change that and
change the initial
states to checkingAuth just
to see that that works.
And yeah,
we do get to the unauthorized state.
All right, but what we wanna do is
check that the user is in context and
it's not undefined.
So let's go ahead and
add our transient transition.
So we're going to check the condition.
And remember,
each one of the guards takes two arguments
just like everything else,
context and event.
We're not gonna be using the event
because we're in the initial state,
there is no event.
But we are going to be using the context
to see if there is a context.user.
So we could just return !!context.user
just to see if the user exists.
You could also do context.user is not
equal to undefined or something like that.
So this is going to be the first
transition that's checked.
And if this condition returns true,
then we're going to go to the idle state.
So right now, we don't have a user.
And we see that we are in the checkingAuth
state, which means it is stuck here.
So we need to add a default transition.
And so
we could just say target: 'unauthorized'.
So now this will go to the unauthorized
state because this condition is false.
So let's test it out.
Let's say that we have a user here,
name: 'David'.
And we can see that it does go to
the idle state and we are able to drag.
So how can we dynamically pass this
in now that we see that this works?
Well, let's start with having
our user back to undefined.
And there's really two ways
that you could do this.
So if we see where we're using
the dragDropMachine down here.
You could see that right now it's
just going to take those default
context values.
So the user is going to be undefined.
And we're not going to be able to
track because we're gonna be in
the unauthorized state.
Now, we could say
dragDropMachine.withContext.
And currently in XState,
you have to basically provide
the entire initial context.
So what you could do is spread
dragDropMachine.initialState.context.
And then just provide the user,
say, I want this machine
to have the initial context and
a user, which is not undefined.
So that is using withContext,
and you'll see,
since we have a user, we are able to drag.
However, there's another way to do this.
Instead of just providing a machine,
we could have what's
called a machine creator.
And this is just normal JavaScript.
It's not something that's
a feature of XState.
It's just a pattern that you could use.
So instead of dragDropMachine,
I'm gonna call this createDragDropMachine.
And so instead of just providing
the machine, going to say user.
And then we can inject that
user directly into here.
So this is a function that takes
in a user and returns a machine.
So now,
instead of dragDropMachine.withContext,
I could just say, createDragDropMachine
with my user, name: 'David'.
And so we'll see that this now works.